Holy smokes. I did not expect to be
making this video today. But if you've
been using claw code in the terminal
inside VS Code or anything like that and
you've been waiting for a reason to
switch to the desktop app, then today
might be that day. So last week Claude
dropped an update and while the
announcement focused on running sessions
in parallel and reviewing things without
leaving the app, they forgot to mention
or they buried two features that are
actually going to change how most people
use Claude inside the desktop. So the
real issue before was that the desktop
app was always super one-dimensional. So
remember back to the days of chatbt
chatting back and forth with one single
task. Everything lived in an isolated
workspace. Then came along claw desktop.
It brought claw co-work as well as claw
code. But even then everything was
designed to be a back and forth chat
with individual tasks. So you had no
visibility into your wider business
context, no connection between your
sessions and no sense of progress across
projects. These are all things you
absolutely need when you're working on a
real business problem. And it's exactly
the reason we built our own agentic
operating system in the first place,
which is effectively a pre-built file
structure that stores your context,
loads it in only when you need it, and
is designed to improve its own outputs
every single time you use it just by
managing context in the right way. But
you couldn't properly use that in the
desktop app before because the files
were invisible. Now you can actually see
and interact with them. So instead of
those isolated chats, you've got the
framework to carry out structured
complex projects. Each client can have
their own folder. You can move into that
workspace, run tasks inside the
workspace, and keep everything tied with
the right context. And because of that,
you can plan properly, track progress,
and actually start to improve your
outputs over time. So effectively, the
same system that used to require the
terminal due to its flexibility now can
work natively on desktop. And I'm
stunned that it's happened so quickly,
to be honest. So, let me show you
exactly the features that were buried in
there that I think are going to be game
changers and might just move you off the
terminal today directly into the desktop
app. I've also noticed a few limitations
which we'll touch on as well. So,
firstly, this was announced multiple
sessions. So, you can see that we have
multiple sessions running at once. So,
you can see a holistic view of all of
your sessions. It's no longer chats on
the left hand side. It means you can
work on actual projects where you have
multiple tasks or multiple sessions
pertaining to a single project. You can
also see how they all connect. Secondly,
let's jump into one of these. Say we
have a plan. We used to have to view the
plan down here. But Claude has quietly
launched this sidebar here that has
options to actually view the plan inside
markdown. So say we want to view the
plan, we now get the markdown rendered
and formatted in this nice plan view
that we can expand and collapse. We can
see exactly what plan claude set out for
us and we can also therefore execute
against the plan inside the chat without
having to go all the way back up and
viewing the plan. You can now track
progress side by side. Secondly, split
view. So having a holistic view of a
given project where you have multiple
sessions is super important. And what's
more important is actually being able to
view those in a split view. So say for
example I wanted to view two of these
sessions together then I'm absolutely
able to do that. I just drag and drop
and I can also open up the plan on this
here and they are completely independent
windows. So I can have multiple windows
running. Say I want to run a third
session. I can actually run that in
there and we can run up to four sessions
at once adjusting how we please and
using the real estate on the screen how
we want. So we can go into the plan and
we can go into the files. So previously
similar to the plan we never had any of
our outputs rendered at all and this
made it really difficult. This is also a
pain in working inside VS Code because
you had to go and render things like PGs
elsewhere without a preview window. Let
me close these PES down. We're not only
able to view the plan, but let's say we
want to view a previous output. We go
into the same window. We can go into
files and as long as we have an
operating system in the back end telling
it where to put output files, we keep
ours in projects for example. We can go
into any of these output files,
especially if they're markdown, and
actually see the full preview of that
file rendered in Markdown on the right
hand side. Yes, it's not perfect. It
doesn't render exactly, but these are
things that Claude will fix, but you can
effectively start to see how they're
going to build out an ability to see
your output files all in one place,
rendered in Markdown, and then able to
actually go in and directly edit these
Markdown files. Now, we've been
literally building out a UI to do this
exact thing. see holistic views of
projects edit mark fat down files and
I'm quite amazed that Claude has got to
this phase already but one of the most
important things although we jumped into
a file that I haven't mentioned yet is
this file structure so previously we
were never able to see this file
structure at all so if you were building
your own agentic operating system in the
back end we weren't able to see these
files and the file structure in the back
end we weren't able to actually go into
our claw MD and make edits we weren't
able to display our outputs that are
being put into projects. We weren't able
to add in and read our context about the
agent or our brand context where we have
our positioning, our voice profile, all
of that stuff. I can now preview and
actually update in the Claw desktop app.
And it goes without saying that now when
we're working inside Claw Code, we can
actually choose when we start a new
session which folder we want to start
in. So previously we were kind of
working in an isolated environment with
zero context. Now you can work inside
your business operating system, your or
your Aentic OS and you can pull all of
the context from that specific folder.
And the reason that's super important is
because now you can actually work
directly in an individual client folder.
You might have a bunch of context that
spreads across all of your clients and
then specific client brand context that
sits within each job. You might have
specific projects that relate to those.
And as long as you've got these rules
defined in your aentic operating system
that sits behind the desktop app, you're
able to effectively use it now in a
really clean way with a UI inside the
claw desktop app. And all of this
building out this agentic operating
system, your own operating system, helps
you achieve 10x results without having
to look at another terminal at all. Now,
there are a few downsides that I've
noticed, but I'm sure they'll be fixed
soon. The first is if you're looking at,
for example, let's say we've got the
Excalador skill that's outputting PNGs.
If we try to render that, it's just
going to give us the PNG as code rather
than actually rendering the output.
That's something I'm sure they'll fix
super quickly. The second downside is
that we can't still see our skills
folders. So, our our hidden files like
Claude, we're not able to actually see
any of the skills inside here and edit
them directly. we're still forced to
actually go to the file structure or
open it in VS Code and actually make
those changes directly in the back end
to our skills. That's something I'm sure
will be also fixed soon or at least the
ability to view the skills inside here
if they're in an underlying folder. And
the third and final thing which is a bit
harder to get round is thev files. So
the hidden environment variables where
you keep all your credentials for your
API keys. Right now there's no ability
to access that and change those. So you
have to go to the underlying file
structure or in open it up in VS code to
actually change and add credentials.
However, if you're working in the
Aenttos repo, it's still able to access
those credentials and use them in API
calls, etc. So it has access. You just
can't change them yet in the claw
desktop app. So given all these updates,
I can actually now see myself starting
to fully move away from VS Code. And I'm
curious if there's any features I've
missed, anything that you think still
holding you back from jumping to the
desktop app. Drop a comment below.
Subscribe if you found this valuable.